---
title: 'Biding my time'
date: '2023-11-8'
---

> Graduating with burnout is no joke. 

Having only graduated a few months ago, it would be easy to say that I am happy that it is all over, that I actually did ***it***. But, deep down inside, I know that I could have done more in the time that I had in university. I knew there were opportunities I could have taken that would make my life post-graduation a little bit easier.

Around 4 years ago, I got into ADMU into my first choice of **Bachelor of Science in Computer Science**. Needless to say, I was in a good spot because I got into the course I wanted and I had no problems with my admission. Because of this, I understood that this was the first step into investing into my future and that I had to make the most of it. Back in RecWeek freshman year, I had to make a decision of what organizations to apply to. There were many options to choose from (like my home organization), but I eventually chose to only apply for my childhood-dream organization, CADs. *For context, I have had a passion for dancing ever since I was a kid. Later on, I started taking it seriously around sophomore year in high school. And since then, dance has been a safe space of mine as an outlet of expression.* Going back to freshman year, it took a little while to get used to things and to recalibrate my habits suitable for university life because I had to account for training, academics, and personal life. **And, to everyone's suprise, the pandemic had started before the second semester could end.**

Everybody has their own unique pandemic story. While I am grateful that my family experiences were relatively positive, I can't help but think that the pandemic itself has mentally destroyed me. While it *could* be an exaggeration on my end, I honestly feel that the pandemic has locked me in my room since. I had to quickly adapt to an online environment and a work-from-home setup which was something I had to endure for roughly 2 years. It was a general consensus that a majority had a steep learning curve. Yet, it sucks that people were able to figure out how to thrive in that environment while I personally felt stuck with nowhere to go. At some point, I tried to cheer myself up. I kept myself active with dance, found distractions through video games, and binged *tons* of movies and shows. But, every single night, there was that looming feeling of dread that I am doing nothing with my life. As each day passed, it was so draining to have to constantly boot up my laptop, check my modules, attend online class and training, to then just repeat all that again the next day. I couldn't get myself out of that rut and do things other than the usual routine. Not to mention that social media was a constant reminder of people all around the world being more productive than I was. In my 21 years of living, I have never felt so miserable and defeated like I was during the quarantine just in my room. Looking back, there were so many opportunities that I could and **should** have taken, but I was too burnt out to do anything.

A little bit more than a year ago, Ateneo went back to face-to-face classes. While I was excited to come back to campus, I knew that I was still burnt out and would be having difficulty coming back. I managed to be able to find a rhythm again but I didn't push myself too much trying to salvage my mental health. *(It didn't work out in the long run!)*. I managed to do decent in my academics, in my extracurriculars, and exceptional in the mental game. Unfortunately, I was too naive to realize that I was only interested in keeping myself from any danger, from any harm. I didn't want to risk anything at this point. I wanted to ensure that by the end of it all, that I would still be able to stand. *Funnily enough, I injured my knee in second semester.* But, that's besides the point, **I wasn't getting any less burnt out**. I put on a front of being happy and content, while I find myself in a state of denial as I completely avoid all that troubled me. I subconsciously put myself in a safety net of missed opportunities and haphazard behavior to mask the fact that **I was afraid to fail**.

Six months later and still unemployed, I am yet to declare that I am no longer burnt out. I have taken a majority of this time to rest after a hectic final semester and recovery from my knee injury. While getting injured was not part of my senior year bingo card, it meant that I was going to miss the only chance I was going to get to perform in an onsite concert with CADs as a member and not alumni. For those that know me personally, me bursting into tears as I hopped my way through the final bow was a complete suprise. For the months of preparation invested into the concert, I never showed how awful I really felt knowing that I wasn't going to perform the way I wanted to. Seeing all my batchmates and my undergrad friends enjoy the process, I couldn't help but watch them all from the sidelines. It was easy to fake it, but I eventually accepted that fact and learned to live with it. While there were moments of grieving of what I have lost, I tried my hardest to keep it together until I eventually imploded the night of. 

Since then, I have tried to come into terms with what my life is now after graduating. I still sometimes find it difficult to do productive tasks and succumb to the unhealthy habits I have developed in the pandemic. I briefly have tried to fix these bad habits like waking up earlier or working out consistently. Yet, I cannot seem to get into a groove of things. While to some that isn't optimal, but to me it is okay. 
### I have accepted that I am burnt out and that I am trying to be better. 
As cliche as it sounds, I have learned that my only competition is myself. I have paralyzed myself into thinking that I should keep up with my peers, that I should be doing better (which I know I can). It's just that, with the trajectory my life is going at right now, I should catch a breather. I am figuring out how to healthily handle my situation. And, as a result, it is okay to slow down.

---

**Postscript** 

- I am starting this blog as an effort to start something in my life. While it personally seems so white girl to be making a blog and a pseudo-journal of sorts, I believe this is a healthy step into addressing my burn out and a reminder that this first post (and all succedding posts) are contributing to future Kyle's success. 
- To any future employers reading this, take it with a grain of salt. I'm a decently hard worker. This is just how I feel on the inside.
- To anyone else (whether I know personaly or not), I hope this doesn't seem pretentious. It's purely just something I have been keeping in for a while. I wish this gives you comfort in some form.